# cancer-blog
Cancer is a broad term. It describes the disease that results in cellular transformation leading to uncontrolled growth and division of cells. Cancer develops when the body's normal control system stops functioning. Older cells do not die and instead create new, abnormal cells. These extra cells can form a cluster of tissue, called a tumor. There are two types of solid tumors: malignant (cancerous) and benign (non-cancerous). Cancerous tumors can invade surrounding tissues in the body, and as they grow, some cells can also travel to other places in the body to become other "secondary" tumors, also known as metastases. Examples of solid malignant tumors include carcinoma and sarcoma.  Carcinomas are cancers that begin in cells that make up tissue organs such as the liver or kidney. Sarcoma is cancer that occurs in the connective tissues of the body, such as muscles, bones, and nerves. The benign tumor does not spread or travel throughout the body. Most are not life-threatening, aside from a few brain tumors that can cause inflammation and put pressure on the delicate tissue surrounding the tumor.   Common forms of cancer A cancer cell can form in anybody either males and females. Cancer can occur anywhere in the body. In women, cancer is one of the foremost common cancer. In men, it's prostatic gland cancer. lung cancer and colorectal cancer affect both men and ladies in high numbers.  There are 100 types of cancer which are mainly divided into five main categories:  Carcinoma: Starts in the skin or tissues that line the internal organs. Sarcoma: develops in bone, cartilage, fat, muscle or other connective tissues. Leukemia: Starts in blood and bone marrow. Lymphomas: Starting in the immune system. Central nervous system cancers: it is the brain and spinal cord cancer.  cases of cancer per year
